Walk them back.
Let's learn a few more types that we can use with typescript.
The first one is something called a pupil.
And by the way where do these types come from.
Well some programming languages actually have these types that we're going to be talking about and Javascript
just happens to not have them doesn't mean it's a bad thing but typescript allows us to actually use
them which is a pretty nice feature.
So a tuple is.
Well I think just showing you might make sense what a tuple is we can say let Foskett
string
and number and now the basket will have a basketball and a five in its array.
So if I save this everything still works.
And that's a tuple a tuple you can define in this syntax and have different types inside of it so that
if for some reason my order changes and I do 5 and now Baskett let me make sure I add the string.
I get an error because it's expecting this specific type and this type order and it can come in very
handy for certain things you might not use it that often.
But just again like I said just SYNNEX your feature you can use another one that's very popular especially
because it exists in a lot of programming languages is something called enew for innumerable.
And here we can do something like this we can say in Gnome size you see that we get that highlighting.
So this can be anything that we want and we usually capitalize it and we'll say with curly brackets
that small equals to one medium equals two.
Now let's say large equals to 3.
And now using this new type I can say let size Lassez size name be a string and say equals size
what does that mean let's save and see what happens.
I'm not getting any years.
So it looks like it's working.
I'm getting no errors but if I go to typescript Dodd J.S.
Whoa I'm getting some funky outputs here.
But it looks like the size too that I'm getting.
Should put medium.
Let's test this theory.
I'm going to say Konsole go log size name.
You want to save.
I'm going to close the compiler for now and just run node typescript.
Dodgy Yes.
And I get medium.
I know this can get a little bit confusing but again something that you can read up on with nums you
can have a different data structure that you can use to organize your information for your program.
For example if we had a shopping cart and we had small medium and large sizes and each value of the
small medium and large it was 1 2 and 3.
Well we can use size name to make sure that we get the correct value.
Now let's say we want to have instead of size 2 let's say we're going to have size
small 5 on the compiler.
Type size small is not assignable to type string but if I change just to number
everything works because size small is now equal to 1 and you can see if I hover over this it shows
me that size small is equal to 1.
Now when would this be actually useful.
Well in nums allow us to define a set of named Constans just like we have here and using them we can
make it easier to perhaps document intent or create a set of distinct classes such as sizes or perhaps
maybe we want to have directions like up down left right and each direction has a value associated with
it.
Again you can read up more about it on their documentation is just another useful tool.
All right let's take a break and I'll see in the next one by.